# Nesting the /host routes

- We are now going to nest the different pages into the host route, we are going to start with this challenge on your own project!

- I believe one of the reasons why this is happening is because there is no outlet inside of our Dashboard page, meaning that we are basically just rendering up the entire page itself instead of letting the children routes render inside of a container.

```js
{
  /* 
          Challenge: 
          1. Turn the "/host" path into a parent route and nest
          "/host/income" and "/host/reviews" as children routes.
          Then try entering "/host/income" in the URL and see what
          happens.
          
          2. See if you can figure out why it did what it did.
          */
}
```

## How to fix issue

- Because right now our Dashboard is almost working like the layout route, it does not currently have an outlet to display any of the other data that we need, we can fix this by making an outlet.

- React router is deciding multiple routes and deciding that multiple things can go on the page at one time, when we nest routes into other routes we are basically displaying two different components at once.

- In our case the route `/host` is matching meaning that we will display our host page and if we use that as a parent route and outlet some other pages when we use `/host/income` we will display both the host component and the income component.

```js
// main.jsx
;<Route path='/host' element={<Dashboard />}>
  <Route path='/host/income' element={<Income />} />
  <Route path='/host/reviews' element={<Reviews />} />
</Route>

// Dashboard.jsx
function Dashboard() {
  return (
    <DashContainer>
      <Outlet />
    </DashContainer>
  )
}
```

- The issue we are now facing is that the dashboard itself is a page, meaning if we use the outlet inside of it we will display the entire dashboard page on each and every nested route.

- The dashboard is not the shared user interface we want between these 3 different routes. The only shared interface we want is the links to jump between these different pages within the host.

- What we do here is create another layout route that is specific to the /host route. This still needs to be nested inside of our main Layout route since we still want our header and our footer.

# Creating the Host Layout

- What we basically want to happen is the dashboard navigation to work as a layout, so that we can outlet the different pages onto that component and keep that dashboard navigation when we are switching between the different pages.

- The way I soloved this was nesting another route that leads to the dashboard inside of the Route path, they do have the same route of `/host` so I am not sure if my solution is the most optimal.

- As Bob explained in the video my solution works but will never be seen in production level code, instead we will learn about relative routes and solve this!

```js
/**
 * Challenge: Make the HostLayout component!
 * The HostLayout should use Links to navigate to the following
 * routes:
 *    * Dashboard ("/host")
 *    * Income ("/host/income")
 *    * Reviews ("/host/reviews")
 * Then replace the parent "/host" route's element below with the
 * new HostLayout component you made.
 *
 * NOTE: The dashboard route/page will be gone for now, but don't fret.
 * We'll be fixing that in the next lesson.
 */

<Route path='/host' element={<HostLayout />}>
  <Route path='/host' element={<Dashboard />} />
  <Route path='/host/income' element={<Income />} />
  <Route path='/host/reviews' element={<Reviews />} />
</Route>
```
