# To nest or not to nest?

- One thing we are wondering right now is "why is the vans/:id" not nested inside of the vans path?

- This is because the primary reason you would want to nest a route by turning it into a parent is when you want to share UI between two different pages/components.

- In Bobs words "When you want to keep displaying some UI on the page, but also want to display more."

- Also remember that the only time we want to nest routes is when we want to avoid some type of repetition in our route paths. For example, having to do `/host` and `/host/dashboard` and `/host/vans/:vanId`.

- All of this means is that if your path is going to take you to an entirely different page with no shared UI you should not create a parent route, if we do then we would have to create an `<Outlet />` and use an index, and essentially our outlet component would be empty with only and outlet which is essentially not doing anything but creating more files in our project and making it more difficult for a developer to come into the project and make changes.

- We can see this in action with this challege.

```js
/**
 * Thought experiment:
 *
 * Re-write the vans route as a nested route. Because there's no shared
 * UI between /vans and /vans/:id, the parent "vans" route won't have its
 * own `element` prop, just a `path` prop.
 *
 * Hint: you're not creating a Layout Route (since that's only for
 * shared UI), but you are using another kind of "pathless" route...
 */
```

## My Solution

- In my solution I turned the vans route into a parent route but since there is no shared UI there is also no need for me to include an element or in other case tell the vans path what element to render to the screen.

- Instead I set the Vans component to index which means when we visit /vans that is what will appear to the user, and finally when they go into the path of :id since its a child of the path vans react router will automatically read that as `/vans/:id`, personally I dont see anything wrong with this solution but we will see what Bob says!

- What Bob explained is that we are now using 4 lines instead of two lines which isn't terrible but this solution is a bit unrealistic because we now have a parent route without an element and we have to specify the index in the child, overall he explains that when there is no shared iterface there is no reason to do this at all (Maybe very rare circumstance).

```js
<Route path='vans'>
  <Route index element={<Vans />} />
  <Route path=':id' element={<VanDetail />} />
</Route>
```
