# NavLink

- What we want to do is hightlight the navigation item that we are currently on, this is because we want to give the users a way to know what page they are currently viewing and right now the only way to do that is by looking up at the URL.

- There is an easy way to do this in react with something called `Render Props`.

## Step One

- First we can change the import `Link` to `NavLink` the only difference between them is that the style prop and classname prop can both take a function as its value.

```js
import { NavLink } from 'react-router-dom'
```

## Step Two

- Next we want to change all of the Link instances to NavLink.

- We can also apply classNames to these with the className property, and then apply classes to them, since the only one with a class name is the about link its the only one that will be affected by the class my-link.

```js
function Layout() {
  return (
    <div>
      <h3>Welcome to my page!</h3>
      <nav>
        <NavLink to='/'>Home</NavLink>
        <NavLink to='/about' className='my-link'>
          About
        </NavLink>
        <NavLink to='/contact'>Contact</NavLink>
      </nav>
      <Outlet />
    </div>
  )
}
```

## Step Three

- But instead of using a string for className react lets us use a function. Remember to switch to javascript by using the `{}` symbol.

- React router will pass this function an object, which will have a property inside of it called `isActive`, which we will have to destructure from the object we get from the function.

- Is active is a boolean and it describes if the current route we clicked on is active on the page or not, or in other words if its contents is visible to the user.

- We are basically telling React here, if isActive is true meaning that the contents of the page match the URL the user clicked then we will active the class my-link which will change the color of the navigation menu, otherwise we want to return null, or in otherwords no class!

```js
<NavLink
  to='/about'
  className={({ isActive }) => (isActive ? 'my-link' : null)}
>
  About
</NavLink>
```

## Step Three

- This will also work with a style instead of having to use className this is helpful because if we are using something like styled components we dont have to go inside of our global css.

```js
const activeStyle = {
  fontWeight: 500,
  textDecoration: 'underline'
  color: 'red'
}

<NavLink to='/' style={({isActive}) => isActive ? activeStyle : null }>
</NavLink>
```

# Active Link Styling with NavLink

- This is a challenge we will be doing with our current personal website.

```js
/**
 * Challenge - part 1:
 * Make the main navbar indicate the currently-active route. (You can
 * leave the home link alone, since it's doubling as our logo. Only
 * make changes to the /host, /about, and /vans links)
 *
 * Use the following CSS rules:
 *      font-weight: bold;
 *      text-decoration: underline;
 *      color: #161616;
 *
 * You can use either inline styles or a className.
 */
```

- The solution here is that the activeStyles will apply on this style propety on our NavLink that a function that contains an object with a property of isActive and if that property is true then the active style will apply.

```js
  const activeStyles = {
    color: 'black',
    textDecoration: 'underline',
    fontWeight: 600,
  }

  <NavLinks
        to='/shop'
        style={({ isActive }) => (isActive ? activeStyles : null)}
    >
```

# Active Link Styling with NavLink - Part 2

- We will start off with this challenege and notice that we are getting a weird bug, the dashboard link is staying bold even though its not currently active. This is happening because react router does not only check for one route instead its matching multiple routes like `/host/reviews` it checks for both host and reviews and now just reviews.

```js
/**
 * Challenge - part 2:
 * Make the host navbar indicate the currently-active route.
 *
 * Use the following CSS rules:
 *      font-weight: bold;
 *      text-decoration: underline;
 *      color: #161616;
 *
 * I'd recommend using an inline style this time.
 *
 * NOTE: There will be a small bug that we'll fix
 * after you do the challenge.
 */
```

- We can use a property called `end` to fix this and this is basically telling react router to end the search at the element its placed.

- This means if a more nested route matches then it wont also match the top level route.

- Meaning deeper nested routes like `/host/income` and `/host/reviews` will no longer match at `/host` but instead only match at `/reviews`

- When we just use a prop name and don't pass anything into it, react considers it a boolean, its functionally equivilant to saying `end={true}`.

```js
<NavLink
  to='/host'
  end
  style={({ isActive }) => (isActive ? activeStyles : null)}
>
  Dashboard
</NavLink>
```
