# Search Params Intro

- We will now learn about Search Paramaters, which some people call Query Parameters.

- These parameters Represent a change in the UI, some instances where you would use this is if you need to sort somthing on a page, or filter something on a page. And finally if you wanted to do some pagination (if you had 100s of items and wanted to make different pages to continue to contain those items).

- We can think of Query Parameters as a single source of truth for some of our application state. The idea is that its important to ensure the state that you are maintaining in your app has a central hub that we call the source of truth, so that everything derrives how it looks based on that source of truth.

- A good question to ask yourself is "should a user be able to revisit or share this page just like it is?" if "yes" then we should consider raising that state up to the URL in a query parameter.

- React state does not keep its value after a refresh, if you have a counter application and hit the reload button after you count to 7 the app will start back at 0, also if you try to send that link to a friend they will not start from a count of 7 instead they will start at a count of 0.

- Another example of this is that if we filtered our vans and send the link to a friend, they will not get the filtered vans instead they will get all of the vans, meaning this would be a good case for moving the state up to the URL with Search/Query parameters.

- Remember that the best practices about React state are always changing, later in this course there will be an example where we will use a useEffect() and not save the result into a piece of state like we always have.

```js
React.useEffect(() => {
  fetch('/api/vans')
    .then(res => res.json())
    .then(data => setVans(data.vans))
}, [])
```

## Query Parameters Structure

- Its part of our URL in other words its Key/value pairs that live directly in the URL.

- We create query parameters with first starting with a question mark (?).

```js
/vans?type=rugged
```

- There should only be one query parameter in the URL but we can have multiple which are seperated by an ampersand (&).

```js
/vans?type=rugged&filterBy=price

// If we wanted to see prices from low to high
/vans?type=rugged&sortBy=price
```
