# Quick update to our fetching code

- One thing we can do to improve our website application is to take the fetch request out of our component, we can then take that request and put it inside of its own library inside of a function and instead call that function inside of our component.

- This makes sense because considering we want to fetch these vans somewhere else its better to do it this way than having to write this code over and over again.

```js
React.useEffect(() => {
  fetch('/api/vans')
    .then(res => res.json())
    .then(data => setVans(data.vans))
}, [])
```

## Step One

- To do this we would create a new file called `api.js` this would indicate that we are going to be interfacing with the API.

- We will come back and write the sad path soon right now the application will still assume that this fetch request will just work.

```js
export async function getVans() {
  const res = await fetch('api/vans')
  const data = await res.json()
  return data.vans
}
```

## Step Two

- We can then import our getVans function from our api and use it inside of our useEffect().

- Since useEffect cannot be an async function we created a new async function inside of it and awaited the data from the function and set it into the vans state.

- Finally we will have to run this async function in order for this to work because its a function nested inside of another function.

```js
import { getVans } from '../../api'

React.useEffect(() => {
  async function loadVans() {
    const data = await getVans()
    setVans(data)
  }

  loadVans()
}, [])
```

# Coding the Sad Path - Loading state

- Right now we are only initializing the fetch request to get our vans after this component has already been rendered to the page.

- Our other pages display `...loading` which is a better way of handling this but not the best way.

- This is also assuming that if the vans length is not greater than 0, then we must be loading something.

- However if we have an error this will cause us to show the user `...loading` forever.

## Step One

- A common way to fix this is to set some loading state, and setting it to false

```js
const [loading, setLoading] = React.useState(false)
```

## Step Three

- Then when we call our load vans function we can set that state to equal true and when we finish loading we will set that state back to false.

```js
async function loadVans() {
  setLoading(true)
  const data = await getVans()
  setVans(data)
  setLoading(false)
}
```

## Step Four

- This allows us to use this boolean of loading to either conditionally render something on the page or use an early return with an if else statement.

```js
if (loading) {
  return <h1>Loading...</h1>
}
```

## Overview

- We created a loading state as false by default, then set it to true at the beggining of our fetch request, then after the fetch request we set the loading to false, and we handled the user interface case when things are currently loading.

- We would have to do this for every component that is loading data, like the `VanDetail` page the `HostVans` page and the `HostVanDetail` page.

- Although this fixes the page not showing a loading state this does not handle if the app crahes.

# Coding the Sad Path - Error handling

## Step One

- This code here is going to check if the response has come back OK, which is something that is built into fetch.

- This is basically saying if res.ok is not true meaning we have an error when loading up our vans then we will throw and object with the status of the error and a message for the user.

```js
export async function getVans() {
  const res = await fetch('/api/vans')
  if (!res.ok) {
    throw {
      message: 'Failed to fetch vans',
      statusText: res.statusText,
      status: res.status,
    }
  }
  const data = await res.json()
  return data.vans
}
```

## Step Two

- Inside of our vans jsx we can now handle the sad path.

- Because we dont know if the api fetch is going to work or not we can place it inside of a `try / catch` (if you don't remember this check notion)

- What we notice here is that if the err code runs then we will actually get the `throw` object that we placed inside of the if statement inside of our `api.js` file that is in the previous example.

```js
React.useEffect(() => {
  async function loadVans() {
    setLoading(true)
    try {
      const data = await getVans()
      setVans(data)
    } catch (err) {
      console.log('There was an error')
      console.log(err)

      // result
      // {message: "Failed to fetch vans", statusText: "Bad Request", status: 400}
    }
    setLoading(false)
  }
}, [])
```

## Step Three

- We are now handling the error although we don't have any vans to display.

- Now similarly to what we did with the loading state, we are going to create another piece of state that is for errors.

- We can just push the object that is associated with the catch block inside of our setError state setter.

- We can then use our `finally` method remember this runs whether or not the try or catch is successful.

```js
const [error, setError] = React.useState(null)

React.useEffect(() => {
  async function loadVans() {
    setLoading(true)
    try {
      const data = await getVans()
      setVans(data)
    } catch (err) {
      console.log('There was an error!')
      console.log(err)
      setError(err)
    } finally {
      setLoading(false)
    }
  }
}, [])
```

## Step Five

- Now we are able to handle the case when there is an error.

- Now the user will have some feedback to the user that something went wrong. Again we would have to do this for the other pages that are also using fetch requests.

```js
if (error) {
  return <h1>There was an error: {error.message}</h2>
}
```

## Overview

- We are starting to see that there is a lot of repetiton in handling the sad path we are working on, this is happening because we are only starting our fetch request after the component loads.

- If we didn't load our component before we had access to the data, then we wouldnt have to worry about the vans state containing the object that we get returned from our api and the same would be true about the loading state and the error state.

- Because we are first going to the component and then making our request there is a lot of edge cases that we need to handle.

- React native has introduced us a way of loading our data before it ever transitions us to the route which will allow us to get rid of a lot of our boilerplate with having to make loading and error state and handle that state.

- This is where we will now learn about the Data Layer APIs.
