# useSearchParams

- In order to use search parameters in a react router app we have to use a hook called `useSearchParmas` here is a link to the docs `https://reactrouter.com/en/main/hooks/use-search-params`.

- Its very similar to the signature of useState, and to use it we first have to import it from react router.

```js
import {
  BrowserRouter,
  Routes,
  Route,
  Link,
  useSearchParams,
} from 'react-router-dom'
```

## Step One

- Use the hook for search parameters.

- When we console log it we get an instance of the browser native URLSearchParams object. And because of this we have lots of methods that we can make use of when we need to.

```js
const [searchParams, setSearchParams] = useSearchParams

console.log(searchParams)

/* output */

/*
URLSearchParams {size: 0}
size
:
0
/*
```

## Step Two

- One of the methods that is useful is `.get()` which we can provide the name of a key in a key value pair for our search parameters and it will return the value of that parameter.

- Because we don't have a query string here we are going to get back null.

```js
const [searchParams, setSearchParams] = useSearchParams

console.log(searchParams.get('type'))

// result: null
```

- If we enter this into our URL http://localhost:5173/shop?type=scents and console.log our last statement again we get "scents" returned back to us.

## Step Three

- If we want a fuller picture of what our search params are actually containing at any given time we can use a method on the search params called `.toString()`

```js
console.log(searchParams.toString())

// result: type=scents
```

- We can futher iterate this by using the ampersand in the link http://localhost:5173/shop?type=scents&sortBy=price and see that the toString method will return back to us type=scents&sortBy=price. It does not include the question mark in the beginning though.

- We will soon learn how to set our search parameters so we can change it on the click of a button.
