# Filter the array w/ the search param

- Something notable here is that we are not using state to maintain the information about the filter or the filter down list of characters, instead the filter and the getting of the parameter is happening at the top of our component with searchParams.

- The use of getting the param and filtering our page are very quick, meaning this is not something that needs to happen as a side effect inside of a useEffect(). Instead if we keep this code at the top level everytime this component rerenders it will redo this work.

```js
const [searchParams, setSearchParams] = useSearchParams()
const typeFilter = searchParams.get('type')
```

- I solved this and posted it under the challenge at this link https://youtu.be/SicftFGZHVQ but the way bob solved this was by chaining on a filter() array method in front of the map method.

```js
const charEls = swCharacters.filter().map(char => (
  <div key={char.name}>
    <h3 style={{ color: char.type.toLowerCase() === 'jedi' ? 'blue' : 'red' }}>
      Name: {char.name}
    </h3>
    <p>Type: {char.type}</p>
    <hr />
  </div>
))
```

- We could also use a seperate array method which is what we did and give it its own variable.

- We will do it this way because there are some instances where we do not have any filters and instead want to just list all of the characters.

```js
const displayedCharacters = swCharacters.filter()

const charEls = displayedCharacters.map(char => (
  <div key={char.name}>
    <h3 style={{ color: char.type.toLowerCase() === 'jedi' ? 'blue' : 'red' }}>
      Name: {char.name}
    </h3>
    <p>Type: {char.type}</p>
    <hr />
  </div>
))
```

- The better solution would look like this, first we ask if we have a type filter and if true then we will filter the characters based on a condition and if its fals we will just return all of the characters.

- .filter() takes a function which means we will have access to each one of the characters in this function and we need to return true or false, if true then we will keep this character in the new array and if false we wont.

- Rembmer the typeFilter is going to be obtained from the url and our buttons will probably serve us to the parameter or query links that will filter these items with the code below.

```js
const displayedCharacters = typeFilter
  ? swCharacter.filter(char => char.type.toLowerCase() === typeFilter)
  : swCharacters
```
