# Using the search params setter function

- There is another way we can set the search parameters in our application.

- The first way we did it by just using the to method is a very simple way to do this but there are some minor downfalls.

- Instead of linking to the query parameters that we want, we can use the state setter function that we recieved when we initalized our search params.

- Just like with state the setSearchParams is a setter that tells it what the new search params are going to be.

```js
const [searchParams, setSearchParams] = useSearchParams()
```

- Instead of using links we are going to be using buttons and since they dont have the to keyword that links have we will be using an onClick listener.

- Inside of the onclick we will run a callback function that runs setSearchParams and just like state setters we can either keep the last search param or overwrite it with a new one.

- One way to add a new search param is to use a string that will represent what search param you want.

- setSearchParams assumes the ? symbol already meaning that we only have to enter the query parameter that we wish to reach.

```js
<div>
  <button onClick={() => setSearchParams('type=scents')}>Jedi</button>
  <button onClick={() => setSearchParams('?type=wearabes')}>Sith</button>
  <button onClick={() => setSearchParams('')}>Clear</button>
</div>
```

- This does work but is usually not used, what is more likely to be used is something called a record initialization, or in other words an object initialization, this is very similar were our objects have keys and values just like our search parameters.

- We also don't need to define the ? symbol this is already happening with setSearchParams under the hood.

- There is many ways to do this but more times than not you will see people using an object like this.

```js
<div>
  {/* Needs to be in a callback so it runs when button is clicked and not when page loads */}
  <button onClick={() => setSearchParams({ type: 'jedi' })}>Jedi</button>
  <button onClick={() => setSearchParams({ type: 'sith' })}>Sith</button>
  <button onClick={() => setSearchParams({})}>Clear</button>
</div>
```
