# Merging search params with links

- There has been a minor downfall to how we have been using query parameters up to this point.

- This is because its so common to have more than one query parameter with each one having to do with another part of the application and right now we are simply just hard coding these parameters into our setter.

- This is an issue because as soon as we click one of the buttons we will lose the context of the query selector that we are currently on, for example if we click the skincare button we get `?type=skincare` and then if we click the scents button we get `?type=scents` meaning we completely lose skincare every time.

- If you know for a fact that you will not have any other query selectors in your project the way we learned here will work perfectly, however we will learn other methods to merge our query parameters with existing query parameters instead of completely replacing them.

- In the first part we will see how we can generate a query string, like we see in our links so that it will merge any existing query parameters with the one we are trying to add.

- The second part will cover how we can do this using setSearchParams.

## Generate Query String

## Step One

- This requires us to understand the URLSearchParams constructor, the idea is that instead of hard coding a string, we are going to call a function, we can't call the function iside of the to prop like this`to={() => {}}` because it will never get called since to is not waiting fora click event, instead we will insert that function to load automatically.

```js
<div>
  {/*<Link to={genNewSearchParamString(key, value)}>Jedi</Link>*/}
  <Link to={genNewSearchParamString('type', 'jedi')}>Jedi</Link>><Link to='?type=sith'>
    Sith
  </Link>
  <Link to='.'>Clear</Link>
</div>
```

## Step Two

- We want this function to take in a new key and value, when referencing the Jedi remember that the key is "type" and the value is "jedi".

- In our function we are going to create a new set of search params by using the new URL search params constructor (This has nothing to do with react router just plain JavaScript).

```js
function genNewSearchParamString(key, value) {
  const sp = new URLSearchParams()
}
```

## Step Three

- We are going to initalize our new URLSearchParams() with the value of the old searchParams.

```js
function genNewSearchParamString(key, value) {
  const sp = new URLSearchParams(searchParams)
}
```

## Step Four

- We then will use the methods we mentioned like .set() and .delete() in order to alter the search params object that we just created.

- Remember that the value can either be a search param like jedi/sith and or null, so we will run an if else statement that will check if the value is null and if it is we will delete the sp param object contents.

- Inside of the `delete()` method we pass a string of the key that we are trying to delete. We know that is going to be "type", but since thats key inside of our function we write that instead.

```js
function genNewSearchParamString(key, value) {
  const sp = new URLSearchParams(searchParams)

  if (value === null) {
    sp.delete(key)
  }
}
```

## Step Five

- Otherwise if the value is not null then we will use .set(), which is going to take two parameters, it takes the key and value.

- This will basically mean set the search parameter of key equal to what the value is.

```js
function genNewSearchParamString(key, value) {
  const sp = new URLSearchParams(searchParams)

  if (value === null) {
    sp.delete(key)
  } else {
    sp.set(key, value)
  }
}
```

## Step Six

- When we log this to the console what we get is our two different Link key and values that we passed into the argument of our functions with the to method.

- Instead of console logging it we can return it with template literals and the question mark in the front because that is how we want our query paramters to appear at the top of the URL.

```js
;<div>
  <Link to={genNewSearchParamString('type', 'jedi')}>Jedi</Link>
  <Link to={genNewSearchParamString('type', 'sith')}>Sith</Link>
  <Link to={genNewSearchParamString('type', null)}>Clear</Link>
</div>

// console.log(sp.toString())
return `?${sp.toString()}`

/* result */
/* type=jedi / type=sith */

/*
We get these results because the argument in our links give us type and the name of the search parameter.
*/
```

## Result

- So why did we do all of this? If you put inside of your URL now `?name=bob` and then click on one of the buttons it will concatinate it and add a & symbol instead of just replacing the URL query parameter all together, meaning that your result will be something more like this `?name=bob&type=jedi`. And if you click sith instead you will get `?name=bob&type=sith`, Finally if you hit clear it will only get rid of the type property on our search params meaning you will get something like this `?name=bob`.

- Remember that this is not part of react router but we are learning this because its a common thing that people do and we dont want to be stuck for days trying to learn how to do this ourselves.
