# Merging search params with the setSeachParams function.

- This lesson is going to be a repeat of the last lesson but instead of using a regular link with the to method we are going to be using the `setSearchParams` that we get from our `useSearchParams()` inside of an onClick listener.

```js
const [searchParams, setSearchParams] = useSearchParams()
```

- The useSearchParams Hook is very similar to the useState Hook from react, and its not just because it returns an array with two items, but more deeply the function for setting the value can take two different types of parameters, it can take a replacement value for the state or it can take a callback function, which will recieve the previous state so that we can make changes to it.

## Step One

- First we will create a new function `handleFilterChange()`, also remember when we call this inside of our buttons it will be inside of a callback function because we dont want this running as soon as the page loads up.

- We need to make sure that this function takes in the key and the type which remember the key is going to be type, and the value is going to be either jedi sith or null.

```js
function handleFilterChange(key, value) {}

;<div>
  <button onClick={() => handleFilterChange('type', 'jedi')}>Jedi</button>
  <button onClick={() => handleFilterChange('type', 'sith')}>Sith</button>
  <button onClick={() => handleFilterChange('type', null)}>Clear</button>
</div>
```

## Step Two

- Before using the setSearchParams we were passing through an object, but the problem was that we did not keep our previous state meaning that we would overwrite the search parameter in the URL. `setSearchParams({type: })`

- But setSearchParams can use a callback function with the previous state of our URL parameter, just like the state setter function.

- And we will keep something very similar to our last way of doing this in that we will ask if the value is equal to null.

```js
function handleFilterChange(key, value) {
  setSearchParams(prevParams => {
    if (value === null) {
    }
  })
}
```

### Step Three

- Instead of putting everything inside of the URLSearchParams window object we will take the prevParams and delete if the value is null otherwise set the key and the value to the prevParams.

- When using state we never want to modify the state directly but since react router and the search parameter works somewhat different from the useState Hook we can actually do this without running into any issues.

```js
function handleFilterChange(key, value) {
  setSearchParams(prevParams => {
    if (value === null) {
      prevParams.delete(key)
    } else {
      prevParams.set(key, value)
    }
    return prevParams
  })
}
```

## Result

- This will work exactly like our last solution.
