# 404 Page

- Its very useful to give information for something that doesn't exist on your site when a user tries to access it.

- Sometimes this happens if you have outdated links inside of your site that lead to pages that no longer exist. Or when someone else links to your website and they got the link wrong or they are using an outdated link that no longer exist.

- If we goto https://www.minazia.com/about/blahahah this route does not exist inside of our site, and right now the users have no way of knowing this, instead they just get a blank screen.

- This is where a 404 page would be really useful.

## Step One

- To add this we would use something called a splat route, or a catch all route, which has everything to do with what we put on our path.

- Since we want our 404 page to keep our footer and header it would be a child of the main page layout route, but if we wanted it to be its own page without the navigation menus we could place it outside.

```js
<Routes>
  // Place here for header and footer to NOT appear
  <Route path='/' element={<Layout />}>
    // Place here for header and footer to appear
    <Route index element={<Home />} />
    <Route path='about' element={<About />} />
  </Route>
</Routes>
```

## Step Two

- A catch all route is going to be similar to a universal selector or a catch all selector in CSS.

- This means if there are no other routes listed, then use the `<Route path='*' />` route, which will contain our 404 page.

- This is why its called a "catch all" because it will catch anything that does not exist elsewhere.

- In the past we would have to worry about what order we put our link items in but we dont have to do this anymore!

- In the video bob but this component at the very bottom of the page because he thought it looked better, since this is preference I will just go anlong with the video.

```js
<Routes>
  <Route path='/' element={<Layout />}>
    <Route path='*' element={<h1>Page not found!</h1>} />
    <Route index element={<Home />} />
    <Route path='about' element={<About />} />
  </Route>
</Routes>
```
