# useNavigate()

## Navigate

- Navigate is a component that we can import from react router dom and what it basically does is automatically navigates us to the route it has defined when the component loads.

```js
import { useNavigate } from 'react-router-dom'

export default function Login() {
  return (
    <Navigate to='/about' />
    <div>
      <h1>Login Here!</h1>
    </div>
  )
}
```

## useNavigate()

- `useNavigate()` is a hook version of `Navigate` this is for our programatic code. For example, our handleSubmit for our forms, while the regular navigate is meant to go inside of the actual component and can't be used elsewhere.

- We can have access of useNavigate by declaring the hook (dont forget to import it).

- Under the hood the `Navigate` component is just calling the useNavigate hook.

```js
import { useNavigate } from 'react-router-dom'

export default function Login() {
  const [loginFormData, setLoginFormData] = React.useState({
    email: '',
    password: '',
  })
  const message = useLoaderData()
  const [status, setStatus] = React.useState('idle')
  const [error, setError] = React.useState(null)
  const navigate = useNavigate()

  function handleSubmit(e) {
    e.preventDefault()
    setStatus('submitting')
    setError(null)
    loginUser(loginFormData)
      .then(data => {
        navigate('/host')
      })
      .catch(err => setError(err))
      .finally(() => setStatus('idle'))
  }
}
```

- Inside of yur utils.js file or inside of your authRequried component remember to set `isLoggedIn` as true to make sure it doesn't just navigate you to the login page forever once you get to the host page again.

```js
import { redirect } from 'react-router-dom'

export async function requireAuth() {
  const isLoggedIn = true

  if (!isLoggedIn) {
    throw redirect('/login?message=You must log in first.')
  }
}
```

## replace: true

- There is another argument you can use inside of the useNavigate function `{ replace: true }` which will basically just replace our location in the history stack with what used to be there.

- This basically means that if we login and then after hit the back button in our browser instead of taking us to our login page again it will take us to the page we were at before we logged in.

```js
navigate('/host', { replace: true })
```

## useNavigate vs redirect

- Any hooks that we have like `useNavigate()` can only be run at the top level of our component code (this means within the `export default function`), however when we are working with other functions like loader functions that live outside of the component body we are not able to use hooks like useNavigate because a loader is NOT a component.

- If we are using navigate with a variable equal to the hook inside of a component we will often times need a useEffect in order to avoid difficult bugs that can happen when using navigate.
