# React Router Form Component

- Nativly to HTML forms know how to handle their own state, they also know how to submit to some type of backend.

- Meaning traditionally we would have something on our form called action where we would pass some sort of php file like `login.php` so that when we submit the form or rather when the submit event happens the php file would get called then seralize the information from the form either in a query string in the URL or collect it together as form data and sent it to the login.php file which would then process the data and do something in response.

```js
return (
  <form action='login.php' onSubmit={handleSubmit}>
    <input
      type='email'
      name='email'
      placeholder='Email address'
      value={formData.email}
      onChange={handleChange}
    />
    <br />
    <input
      type='password'
      name='password'
      placeholder='Password'
      value={formData.password}
      onChange={handleChange}
    />
    <br />
    <button>Log in</button>
  </form>
)
```

- Instead of submitting to the backend react router gives us a component to intercept the outgoing request that normally would happen with a native form.

- Then process that information on the front-end instead.

## Step One

- Import Form from react router which is built on top of the native html form.

- Now we can replace the tags of the normal html forms and instead use the react router form component.

- Because the native HTML forms can handle their own state we can delete both the handleChange() and handleSubmit() functions that we always have to use when working with react forms.

```js
import { Form } from 'react-router-dom'

return (
  <Form>
    <input type='email' name='email' placeholder='Email address' />
    <br />
    <input type='password' name='password' placeholder='Password' />
    <br />
    <button>Log in</button>
  </Form>
)
```

# Setting up the Action function

## Step One

- Where a form would usually submit to some type of backend, in react router is going to run a function that we tell it to run.

- The syntax is going to look very similar to loaders where we have a function that we export outside of the component.

```js
import React from 'react'
import { useNavigate, Form } from 'react-router-dom'

export async function action() {}
```

## Step Two

- Just like we do with loaders we have to go into our route defenitions and include it there, where we import our login.

- Also just like with loaders we have to import it to the route while loader uses `loader={loginLoader}` actions use `action={loginAction}`.

- If we have anything that submits a form from the login component on the login route it will automatically call the function that we pass into the action prop on that route.

```js
import Login, { action as loginAction } from './Login'

<Route path='login' element={<Login />} action={loginAction}>
```

## Step Three

- Now we can console log something inside of the action function to test out how it works.

- This will seralize our information of the form into the URL, remember this is the default way forms work in HTML. (This is because of how forms work in HTML, when we make a GET request which is the default)

```js
export async function action() {
  console.log('Im the action function!')
}
```

## Step Four

- We are going to be handling our forms as a POST request meaning that on our form we will include the HTML native attribute of method and set it to post.

- Side note: return something in the async action function like null or react router will throw an error.

- What we should get now is the console log we set up in the action function running!

```js
export async function action() {
  console.log("I'm the action function!")
  return null
}

return (
  <Form method='post'>
    <input type='email' name='email' placeholder='Email address' />
    <br />
    <input type='password' name='password' placeholder='Password' />
    <br />
    <button>Log in</button>
  </Form>
)
```

## Step Five

- Because we are using an action function and importing it into our route we can also omit using the action property on the form, but this is nice to know because the action property does actually work using forms in react-router-dom.

```js
<Form action=''></Form>
```

- Another thing to note is that there is an object coming back from the action function and it returns an object with a request property and a params property, which is exactly what gets passed into our loaders which is where we will get access to the information that gets submitted in the form

```js
export async function action(obj) {
  console.log(obj)
  return null
}

{request: Request {}, params: {}}
```

# Action function - params

- Remember when we submit the form we get an object with two properties `Request` and `params`.

- Params is refering to route parameters so if our path for accessing login was `/login/:id` that would mean that the path has parameters attatched to it that we can grab through our action function.

- If we put into the url `/logn/whatever` when using the param id inside of our route our params object as shown above would change to `{request: Request {}, params: {id: "whatever"}}`.

- In our action functions its important to know that we have access to our params just incase we needed to update one of our existing vans from `/host/vans/1` we could grab the parameter of the URL and say make a request to /api/vans/1 which we grab from the object and make whatever change we need to make.

# Action function - request

- We will now see what is returned from the request object, we can directly destructure that from the action function instead of having to access it using dot notation.

- The reason why this is called request because in a native form when you submit it normally sends a request out to a backend file like `login.php`, then the backend would process that request and do something with it.

- Since we are only working in the front end react router with the action function is intercepting that request and giving us access to it in our action function.

- This action function then lets us do what we want with the data which means it will replace the handleSubmit function that we usually have to use.

- We can get access to the form data by using `request.formData()`, this is an async function meaning that we have to await it.

- This gives us a FormData object which is the native FormData object that is offered by html `https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/FormData`.

```js
export async function action({ request }) {
  const formData = await request.formData()
  return null
}
```

- Instances of form data have a property called get, meaning now we can gather information from the input of our forms.

- Because the name of the input form to enter the email address is called "email" we will need to provide that same name inside of our get property (Same thing goes for password).

```js
export async function action({ request }) {
  const formData = await request.formData()
  const email = formData.get('email')
  const password = formData.get('password')
  // process this info however I wanted
  // pass the email and password to the loginUser function
  console.log(email, password)
  return null
}

<input
  type='email'
  name='email'
  placeholder='Email address'
/>

<input
  type='password'
  name='password'
  placeholder='Password'
/>
```
