# useNavigation()

- We don't have a good indication of the status of our app when we are in the middle of submitting our form.

- In vanlife right now we have some local react state that has a status property and we are setting it manually inside of the handleSubmit.

```js
function handleSubmit(e) {
  e.preventDefault()
  setStatus('submitting')
  setError(null)
  loginUser(loginFormData)
    .then(data => {
      navigate('/host', { replace: true })
    })
    .catch(err => setError(err))
    .finally(() => setStatus('idle'))
}
```

- Because the Form submitting is now happening inside of our action function and not inside of the handleSubmit function we can't update our local component state because the action is not part of the component.

- React gives us a utility function called `useNavigation` which is different from `useNavigate`.

- `useNavigation` gives us an object that gives us information about the current status of navigation in our application. If router is in the process of loading in a loader (or submitting a form) the navigation object can give us information about that.

## Step One

- Use the navitation hook inside of the component and name it navigation.

- When we console log it we see that its an object with lots of different properties but the only one thats not undefined is a property called state.

```js
import { useNavigate } from 'react-router-dom'

export default function Login() {
  const navigation = useNavigate()

  console.log(navigation)

  /* 
  result:
  {state: "idle", location: undefined, formMethod: undefined, formAction: undefined, formEncType: undefined, formData: undefined}
  */
}
```

## Step Two

- This navigation state is going to be a replacement for manually setting the state which is what we are doing now.

- Now when we click the submit button we can see that the `navigation.state` goes from "idle" to "submitting" and back to "idle" when its done.

- Now we can do what we did in our other application where we could set our form button to conditionally render logging in when the navigation state goes from idle to submitting.

```js
<button disabled={navigation.state === 'submitting'}>
  {navigation.state === 'submitting' ? 'Signing in' : 'Sign in'}
</button>
```
