# redirectTo - part 1

- Now that we have access to the url with the pathname property we can start to solve the issue of the user logging in and always being redirected to the same route.

```js
// Protected.jsx
import React from 'react'
import { redirect, Outlet } from 'react-router-dom'
import { requireAuth } from './requireAuth'

export async function loader({ request }) {
  const url = new URL(request.url)
  await requireAuth()
  return null
}

export default function Protected() {
  return (
    <>
      <h1>Super secret info here</h1>
      <Outlet />
    </>
  )
}
```

- Its our requireAuth function that is in charge of sending the users to the log in page, and then the login page is in charge of redirecting users to the route that they are suppoed to go to which is what we want to fix because we don't want this to be hard coded.

- When we redirect a user using the navigate component or the useNavigate hook we are able to pass some state through the navigation event to the next location and that location object can grab the state that was passed to it.

- Those are hooks and they have to happen inside of componenets and we are working inside of loaders and actions.

- Because of this the most common way is to pass information through the URL. Remember that we can do this with search paramaters / query strings.

- Just how we did this to redirect the user to the login page with you must log in first we can use this method to pass information from our requireAuth function to the login page and then have the login page make use of this information to redirect us to the correct place.

```js
export async function requireAuth() {
  const isLoggedIn = localStorage.getItem('loggedin')

  if (!isLoggedIn) {
    throw redirect('/login?message=')
  }
}
```

- Now we need to figure out how to get the pathname that we are getting from our action function to the require auth function so that we can include it in a query string.

```js
export async function loader({ request }) {
  const url = new URL(request.url)
  await requireAuth()
  return null
}
```

- We can pass the url.pathname into the requireAuth function paramater and use it inside of the requireAuth function on the requireAuth file.

- Or we can pass the entire request object to the requireAuth function call and let the requireAuth function do that logic and figure out how to get the pathname

```js
// Protected.jsx
export async function loader({ request }) {
  // const url = new URL(request.url)
  await requireAuth(request)
  return null
}

// requireAuth.js
export async function requireAuth(request) {
  const pathname = new URL(request.url).pathname
  const isLoggedIn = localStorage.getItem('loggedin')

  if (!isLoggedIn) {
    throw redirect(`/login?redirectTo=${pathname}`)
  }
}
```

# redirectTo - part 2

- So we are sending users to the login page and passing information about where we want them to redirect through template literals.

- Because we are redirecting to the login page / component when we get redirected to the `/login?redirectTo=${pathname}` we can use the login component to get the query string that we get from the redirect.

- Now if we try to access a nested route and we are not logged in our query parameter will read `/protected/nested` for this example and if we want to get the query string we could use a loader function and get the request object destructured from that loader function, however we want this to occur in our action because the loader is not when we want to redirect to that new location.

- We can use the destructured request in the action function to grab the URL then grab the search params from the URL and use that as our redirect value.

- First we are going to convert our request.url into a URL object, then we can get the searchParams from the url that we are passing through the new URL object and finally get the redirectTo value which is going to be the pathname we passed in the requireAuth function `/protected/nested`.

- Remember since this is inside of our action we will have to submit the form to see the console log. Finally, we can redirect to the pathname instead of a hard coded nested route of `/protected`.

```js
export async function action({ request }) {
  const formData = await request.formData()
  const email = formData.get('email')
  const password = fromData.get('password')

  const pathname = new URL(request.url).searchParams.get('redirectTo')
  try {
    const user = await fakeLoginUser({ email, password })
    return redirect(pathname)
  } catch (err) {
    return err.messsage
  }
}
```

- To avoid an error inside of our Route path we need to pass in the request object since requireAuth is going to be expecting this object in order to run some logic inside of it.

```js
<Route
  path='nested'
  element={<h1>Nested protected route</h1>}
  loader={async ({ request }) => {
    await requireAuth(request)
    return null
  }}
/>
```

- We could also go into requireAuth and do that logic ONLY if the request object exists.

- Keep in mind though you may HAVE to do it the first way incase we want to redirect back to the nested route we need to make sure that if the requireAuth ever gets run in the loader then it will pass that request through successfully.

```js
export async function requireAuth(request) {
  if (request) {
    const pathname = new URL(request.url).pathname
    const isLoggedIn = localStorage.getItem('loggedin')

    if (!isLoggedIn) {
      throw redirect(`/login?redirectTo=${pathname}`)
    }
  }
}
```

- Now we have a problem, when we do the regular log in we get `/login/null` this is because the pathname that we are getting from the url object does not exist.

- An easy fix for this would be to choose a default with the OR || operator which will check if the pathname exists, if it does not it will redirect us to `/login/protected`.

```js
export async function action({ request }) {
  const formData = await request.formData()
  const email = formData.get('email')
  const password = formData.get('password')

  const pathname = new URL(request.url).searchParams.get('redirectTo')
  console.log(pathname)
  try {
    const user = (await fakeLoginUser({ email, password })) || '/protected'
    return redirect(pathname)
  } catch (err) {
    return err.message
  }
}
```
