# Protected Routes Intro

- Protected Routes is not a specific API that exists in react router, but rather a paradime or pattern we use to protect certain routes.

- The purpose of protected routes is to stop data fetching of sensitive information. Only allowing logged-in users to access their data.

- In other words users can not access other users data.

- We are going to cover how `Protected Routes` work with the new `Data Routers` that we used to use the Data API and the old `Browser Router`.

- There is a big difference between the two so we will start with the traditional `Browser Router` method.

## Fetching Data Using Browser Router

- When using a `useEffect()` when fetching our data, we first transition to a new page, and THEN the fetch request is kicked off.

- This means the component has to take in account the loading state and error states, incase the data doesn't come back correctly.

- And then the fetch request will complete and rerender the component again with the JSON data that we need.

## Request Waterfall

- In React router when we have nested routes that all display on the page at the same time its possible to end up with a `Request Waterfall`.

- `https://remix.run/` This links to the remix website so that you can understand `Request Waterfalls` better.

- The main idea behind the `Request Waterfall` is that pieces of our UI have to wait on other pieces in order for them to load.

- For example the navigation menu has to load before you can go inside of its subpages, and the subpage has to load before you can go inside of its nested routes.

- Remix and Router both have a way to avoid this making performance much butter on applications.

- This is important because if we want to setup protect routes using the traditional setup, a very common approach is to prevent renders from happening of those protected routes, or those components that have sensetive information.

- If the user is not logged in we block the components from rendering in the first place, and instead send the user to the login page.

- To do this we can introduce an `AuthRequiredLayout` Route between the absolute path and wraped around the protected routes.
