# protected Routes - AuthRequired Layout Route

- We are going to cover how to add our `AuthRequiredLayoutRoute` into our application.

## Step One

- Here we have one Route that is wrapping our child route, our appliation is very simple with only two routes home and protected.

- Remember the job of the `<Layout />` route is to create shared UI that will appear in all of its children routes.

```js
const router = createBrowserRouter(
  createRoutesFromElements(
    <Route path='/' element={<Layout />}>
      <Route index element={<h1>Home page</h1>} />

      <Route path='protected' element={<h1>Super secret info here</h1>} />
    </Route>
  )
)
```

- If we go inside of the Layout itself we see that its basically just giving us our navigation and the `Outlet` which is where the contents of the children routes will go.

- We can create a `LayoutRoute` that can do some logic and conditionally either render our `Outlet` or navigate the person to the login page route.

```js
<>
  <nav>
    <Link to='/'>Home</Link>
    <Link to='protected'>Protected</Link>
  </nav>
  <main>
    <Outlet />
  </main>
</>
```

## Step Two

- We will create a new component called `AuthRequired` and set it up, we will also need to wrap our `AuthRequired` layout route around the protected route inside of our `index.jsx`.

- Now that we wrapped the `AuthRequired` around the protected route as a parent we can conditionally render the Outlet inside of the protected route.

```js
// index.jsx
<>
  <Route element={<AuthRequired />}>
    <Route path='protected' element={<h1>Super secret info here</h1>} />
  </Route>
</>
```

- Now that we have our Outlet being rendered this means that the protected route is now visible since its a child of the AuthRequired route.

```js
// AuthRequired.jsx
import React from 'react'
import { Outlet } from 'react-router-dom'

export default function AuthRequired() {
  // Fake auth
  // If the user is not logged in
  // Redirect them to the /login route
  // Otherwise:
  return <Outlet />
}
```

# Protected Routes - Conditionally send to /login page

## Step One

- Since this course is not about authentication but react router and protected routes we are not going to be using real authentication.

- We are going to fake authentication by using a basic boolean.

- We can then run an if else statement to check for auth.

```js
import React from 'react'
import { Outlet } from 'react-router-dom'

export default function AuthRequired() {
  const isLoggedIn = true
  if (!isLoggedIn) {
    // Redirect them to the /login route
  }
  return <Outlet />
}
```

## Step Two

- To force the user to direct to the login page we are going to be using `Navigate` from react-router-dom.

- If Navigate is ever rendered by router then it will automatically send the user to the route that it has specified.

- Running this code alone shows that when we click the link to the protected route since the AuthRequired is a parent of Layout it we will automatically be redirected to the login page since `isLoggedIn` is false.

```js
import { Navigate } from 'react-router-dom'

export default function AuthRequired() {
  const isLoggedIn = true
  if (!isLoggedIn) {
    return <Navigate to='/login'>
  }
  return <Outlet />
}
```

## Overview

- Since `AuthRequired()` is a parent route of the route `protected` and loading its outlet we can intercept the loading of this outlet to check to see if the user is authenticated first. Meaning we are basically telling the protected route whether its allowed to render to the page or not.

- Also keep in mind that we are using the browser router version of this without loaders, this means that the component will first render and then the fetch request will be made, remember that loaders are different and the fetch request will be made before the component is rendered to the screen, this means that this strategy will not work when using the Data Layer API method of rendering things to the screen using react router.

- Technically we are using a data router when we use `createBrowserRouter` function but we are not using any loaders here which means its ok for us to do it this way since the fetch request will still be made AFTER the component has rendered onto the screen.
