# Protected Routes - with loaders

- Remember that when we are using the Data Layer API loader the fetch happens before the route transition and before the target component or the next component actually renders onto the page.

- If you were on the about page and wanted to get to the vans page, when you click the link to the vans page it will kick off the fetch request from the loader of the vans page first before it ever transitions or renders the vans page, it gets the data and immediately includes it with the vans page. This is awesome because we don't have to keep track of load states and error states since the page will only render if the load is successful and we have a different component handling our errors.

## Parallel Loaders

- Another benefit of having these requests avalible to the data router before the routes load is that they run fetch request before transitioning to that route.

- Meaning that all of our fetch requests will happen at the same time, whether they are nested or not.

- All of the loaders needed for the current route to display correctly are run in parallel form, or all at once.

- When the final loader finishes the entire completed page can render to our screen.

- This means we can't wrap a layout route inside of another layout route because the fetch request data they contain will just start loading all at the same time and not syncronous.

## Redirect()

- To use protected routes when using loaders we are going to use a function called `redirect()` which will happen in our loader function.

- If the user is not logged in redirect to login page when protected route loaders run, before any route rendering happens.

- The one downside is that this code needs to happen within EVERY protected routes loader.

- There is a proposal called `Middlewear` which would allow us to run a function before any of the loaders happen.

- Its important that we don't allow the loader fetch request to even run because even if we could stop someone from viewing the sensetive information they may be able to access it in the Network tab inside of the developer tools.
