# Protected Routes w/ loaders

## Step One

- We will be using a mock loader to make a protected route.

```js
<Route
  path='protected'
  element={<h1>Super secret info here</h1>}
  loader={async () => {
    return null
  }}
/>
```

## Step Two

- Similar to what we were doing in our `AuthRequired` Layout route. We are going to fake our userAuth for the loader to work correctly.

```js
import React from 'react'
import { Outlet, Navigate } from 'react-router-dom'

export default function AuthRequired() {
  const isLoggedIn = false
  if (!isLoggedIn) {
    return <Navigate to='/login' />
  }
  return <Outlet />
}
```

## Step Three

- We can take the isLoggedIn variable and check for it being false and if it is false then we want to redirect.

- Since all of this is happening within a loader we dont have to do any other type of redirect with the `return` keyword. The loader is already the precursor to our protected route loading, rather than the `<h1>` element first being rendered to the page, this means that the h1 will not render unless the loader is complete.

```js
;<>
  <Route
    path='protected'
    element={<h1>Super secret info here</h1>}
    loader={async () => {
      const isLoggedIn = true
      if (!isLoggedIn) {
        // redirect
      }
      return null
    }}
  />
</>
```

## Step Four

- Since we are not inside of a component we can't use the `Navigate` component from router.

- Because of this react gives us another utility function called `redirect` which we have to import. Then we can just write that if the loggedIn state is false then we will redirect our users to the '/login' path.

```js
import { redirect } from 'react-router-dom'
;<div>
  <Route
    path='protected'
    element={<h1>Super secret info here</h1>}
    loader={async () => {
      const isLoggedIn = true
      if (!isLoggedIn) {
        return redirect('/login')
      }
      return null
    }}
  />
</div>
```

- A common paradime is that many people will instead `throw` the redirect instead of doing a return, this could be because its similar to throwing a 400 level error saying that the user is not currently authenticated to access the endpoint.

```js
throw redirect('/login')
```

## Overview

- Now using this if we try to access the protected route when the `isLoggedIn` value is fale it will not work and instead before the data is even fetched we will get redirected to the login page.

- Because the `loader()` intersepted the direction to the '/protected' route and before that could even render it sends us to the login page, if we try to hit back it will take us back to the home page where we were before we attemped to get to the protected page.

- This is neat because now we can keep our loaders loading up the API data before the component renders and also protect sensative information also before the component renders or the fetch request is even made.
