# Protected Routes in VanLife Part 2

- If you want to find part one you can find that on YouTube, at the following link because it was a challenge. (`https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QsiRFuqM3K0`).

## Step One

- We want to check for the user's auth status, in this case we will fake it because this course is not about user auth.

- What we want to check for is if the user is not logged in we want to redirect them to the /login route.

```js
<Route
        index
        element={<Dashboard />}
        loader={async () => {
          return null
        }}
      />
      <Route
        path="income"
        element={<Income />}
        loader={async () => {
          return null
        }}
      />
      <Route
        path="reviews"
        element={<Reviews />}
        loader={async () => {
          return null
        }}
      />
```

## Step Two

- We could write the same code in each and every single of these like shown below.

- The only issue is that this would be very WET code and instead we want a more DRY method, and to make this code more DRY we can instead create a utility function inside of another file and export it into this one.

```js
<Route
  path='reviews'
  element={<Reviews />}
  loader={async () => {
    const isLoggedIn = false
    if (!isLoggedIn) {
      redirect('/login')
    }
    return null
  }}
/>
```

## Step Three

- In this step we created our utility function inside of a file called `utils.js`, we will want to now export this into our `main.jsx` file to use on all of our loaders.

```js
import { redirect } from 'react-router-dom'

export function requireAuth() {
  const isLoggedIn = false

  if (!isLoggedIn) {
    throw redirect('/login')
  }
}
```

## Step Four

- Require the utility function at the top of the `main.jsx` file.

```js
import { requireAuth } from '../utils'
```

## Step Five

- We want to convert our requireAuth function into an async function so that it can return a promise.

- This is because even though requireAuth does not have async code we are pretending that the users info is going to get fetched from a database which is asyncronous.

- We don't want requireAuth to kick off a request and then continue doing fetches in the loaders if the person is not allowed to access that information.

```js
export async function requireAuth() {
  const isLoggedIn = false

  if (!isLoggedIn) {
    throw redirect('/login')
  }
}
```

## Step Six

- We will now make use of all of our async functions by using await inside of the loaders.

```js

```
