# Consume messsage from search param on login page

## Step One

- When the user tries to reach the host page before they are logged in we are going to make them log in first, the way we will do this is by navigating them to the login page.

- Something else to notice here is that they are navigated to a path that contains a query string, we can take that query string and use it to let the user know that they have to log in to view the information that they are looking for.

```js
export default function AuthRequired() {
  const isLoggedIn = false

  if (!isLoggedIn) {
    return <Navigate to='/login?message=You must log in first' />
  }

  return <Outlet />
}
```

## Step Two

- To obtain that query string from the URL we can use `useSearchParams()` this is something we covered in previous lessons.

- We need to make sure we get this query parameter inside of the Login.jsx file so that we can tell the user why they are being redirected to that page in the first place.

```js
const [searchParams, setSearchParams] = useSearchParams()
console.log(searchParams.get('message'))
```

## Step Three

- Another way we can get the search params is by using a loader, the same way that the loader allows you to have access to the params using the params object it also gives you access to request.

- Remember to set up the loader correctly to the main.jsx file or this will not work!

- When we console log the request what we get is a `Request {}` object. This is a request represents an object that has a request constructor, this is coming from the web and is not something specific from react router.

```js
function loginLoader({ params }) {}

export function loader({ request }) {
  console.log(request)
  return null
}
```

## Step Four

- This request object has a property called `url` in which we can see the entire URL that does include the search params at the end.

- We can wrap this inside of a new URL, which because its a URL we have access to properties in that object like `search` and `searchParams` which we can use to get the search param from the link.

- Again this is a native web interface and not something offered by react router.

- Now we are doing exactly what we did in step two when we got the message from the search params!

- This is more native for javascript for the web which is why we should consider doing it this way.

```js
function loginLoader({ request }) {
  // console.log(request.url)
  const url = new URL(request.url).searchParams.get('message')
  return null
}
```

## Step Five

- Now we can instead of putting this inside of a URL return the information and use `useLoaderData` to take that message and use it inside of our component.

- Finally the searchParam can be used like a regular variable.

```js
export function loader({ request }) {
  return new URL(request.url).searchParams.get('message')
}

export default function Login() {
  const searchParam = useLoaderData()
}
```

## Overview

- Here is the video explaining this in more depth ``
