# Loaders Intro

- The first concept we will learn about in the Data Layer API is `Loaders`.

- We are currently using a `useEffect()` for fetching our data, for a really long time this was the best way to do so.

- If we switch from our about page to our vans page what happens is the vans component will start loading the data from an external source.

- Often times this is quick and in return we get some JSON we were expecting from the API that we can then style it with React.

- Because we are loading the data after we already loaded the page, we have a lot of extra stuff we have to add, like saving the data into state `[vans, setVans]`, also the loading and error state `[loading, setLoading] / [error, setError]`.

- We also have a `useEffect` which is handling some data for us and catching any errors with our try catch method.

- We are also handling if the page is currently loading with `if (loading) { return <h1>Loading...</h1> }` and if there is an error with `if (error) { return <h1>There was an error: {error.message}</h1> }`

## Using a Loader Instead

- When we are using a loader when we are inside of our about route and click to the vans route the first thing that happens is it delays, during that delay its starting the fetch request to get the data for the vans page.

- That way when the data is finished coming back from the request it is already apart of the vans page when its loaded up.

## How to use a Loder

- Export a loader function from the page that fetches the data that page will need. In this case we will be working with the vans.jsx page because that is the page that needs data. We will create another function called loader above the component that will recieve the data.

- We will then pass a loader prop the the route that renders that page and pass in the loader funciton.

- Back in our vans component we will use a new hook from react called `useLoaderData` to obtain the data.
