# Loader Function

## Step One

- The first thing we would have to do is goto the component that would normally use a useEffect to get data as soon as that page is mounted (loaded up).

- And instead we will export a seperate loader function instead from that page that will fetch the data that we need for that page.

- Outside of the component we defined we will create a function we will export called `loader()`. In Router the name of the function does not have to be `loader()` but in Remix a framework created by react engineers the name does have to be `loader()`.

```js
import React from 'react'

export function loader() {}

export default function HomePage() {
  return (
    <main>
      <h1>Home page</h1>
    </main>
  )
}
```

## Step Two

- The job of this function is to get the data that we want to get.

```js
export function loader() {
  return 'The data is here'
}
```

## Step Three

- After we export the loader function from the page that detches the data that the page will need we have to pass a loader prop to the route that renders that page and pass in the loader funciton.

- Side Note: We can allow the HomePage component to stay as a export default and also expor the loader function using this import method inside of our index.jsx.

- Now all we have to do is add a new prop to our route thats called loader, and pass in the loader that we imported from our home page.

```js
import Homepage, { loader } from './Home'

const router = createBrowserRouter(
  createRoutesFromElements(
    <Route path='/' element={<Homepage />} loader={loader} />
  )
)
```

## Step Four

- If we have multiple pages using this loader setup we are not able to destructure all of them with a name of `{ loader }` instead a better practice is to use the name of the component and use loader at the end of it like this.

- Remember that we will use camel casing here because `homePageLoader` is NOT a component.

```js
import HomePage, { loader as homePageLoader } from './Home'

const router = createBrowserRouter(
  createRoutesFromElements(
    <Route path='/' element={<HomePage />} loader={homePageLoader} />
  )
)
```

## Next Step

- We will go back and complete the circle to actually pull in the data from our loader `loader={vansLoader}` into the component `Vans.jsx` where we are trying to get it.

# useLoaderData

- The last thing we need to do to actually get this loader working is to use the `useLoaderData` hook inside of our component.

## Step One

- Because we setup our `loader()` function we can now go inside of our component and use a hook called `useLoaderData`, which we will have to import.

```js
import React from 'react'
import { useLoaderData } form 'react-router-dom'

export default function HomePage() {
  return (
    <main>
      <h1>Home page</h1>
    </main>
  )
}
```

## Step Two

- We can then use that hook to grab the data that is being returned from our `loader()` function.

- We can create a variable called data which is going to call this hook.

- When we console log data what we get is what we returned from the function loader "The data is here"

- Whatever we are returning from our loader function is what will come back when we call `useLoaderData()`.

```js
export default function HomePage() {
  const data = useLoaderData()

  return (
    <main>
      <h1>Home page</h1>
    </main>
  )
}
```

## Overview

- The difference is because since we are not doing our data fetching inside of the code of our component, react router can delay the rendering of our HomePage component until the loader has finished its task.

- Its a small shift in how things get loaded, react team does not care how the data is fetched the only thing that is being changed with the Data API is when the data is fetched.

# Use the loader data instead of the useEffect

- The main benefit of using this method is the first of all we don't have to save any of our vans into state anymore since we know that if the page renders its because our data has successfully loaded, which means we also don't keep to keep track of the loading states.

- We get to treat our code more synchronously, instead of having to think about how the component needs to mount and then do a fetch request and then update the state and then to re-render because the state has changed, we don't have to worry about any of that. Making the mental model for this much more simple.

- One thing we did lose was the ability to handle our error state `[error, setError] = React.useState(null)`, before this was handled inside of our try / catch block of code but now it no longer exists.

- This is fine because react router has a way to handle errors and its very simple.

## Quiz

```js
1. When does the code in a loader function run?

2. What are some benefits of using a data loader function
   instead of fetching our data in a useEffect in a component?

3. What change do we need to make to our BrowserRouter before
   we can use loaders (or any of the new data-layer API features)
   in our app?

4. What are the steps we need to take in order to use
   a loader on any given route?
```
