# Handling Errors

- Now we will learn how to handle any errors that might happen, this example may be really simple because we are not getting any data that will ever fail because javascript will probably never fail just returning a string.

## Step One

- We are going to start by throwing out an error manually, when we try to run the code we will get an "Unhanlded Thrown Error!" page and the string that we passed through the error.

```js
export function loader() {
  throw new Error('This is an error')
  return 'The data is here'
}
```

## Step Two

- We can give the user a much better UX (User Experience) by using an `errorElement` prop inside of our `<Route>`.

- Now instead of the unhandled error screen we will get an h1 loaded to the screen saying "There was an error!"

```js
const router = createBrowserRouter(
  createRoutesFromElements(
    <Route
      path='/'
      element={<HomePage />}
      errorElement={<h1>There was an error!</h1>}
      loader={homePageLoader}
    />
  )
)
```

## Step Three

- One thing that is neat about this is that it will handle more than just an error thats happening inside of our loader() function.

- For example, lets say that the loader works just fine but we try to access a property of an object that does not exist or a function that does not exist.

- The throw new error here is pretending that something goes wrong insde of our component and not the loader function itself.

- What happens here is that the error will still run, this means that the `errorElement` property will run if your entire component has any type of error, and not just if there is an error inside of the loader.

```js
export function loader() {
  // throw new Error('This is an error')
  return 'The data is here'
}

export default function HomePage() {
  const data = useLoaderData()
  console.log(data)

  throw new Error('Undefined is not a function!')
  return (
    <main>
      <h1>Home page</h1>
    </main>
  )
}
```

# useRouterError

- Inside of our `api.js` file where we are making our API request we actually have a way of checking if an error has occured, but we want to be able to display this to the user inside of our Error component to render it on our application.

## Step One

- When we have an errorElement that is catching any errors there is a special element in react router we can use to display information about that error.

- Inside of our Error component we just created we can import the utility hook called `useRouteError`.

```js
import { useRouteError } from 'react-router-dom'
```

## Step Two

- Then just like all of the other hooks we can just grab them using a variable.

- If we console log the error what we actually get is an object and this object should be familiar because its the same exact object that we placed inside of our `api.js` file!

```js
export default function Error() {
  const error = useRouteError()
  console.log(error)
  return <h1>An error occured!</h1>
}
```

## Step Three

- If we used Error.jsx in other places its possible that the error message could come back different so we would want to make sure as we are throwing errors inside of our API we are doing it pretty consistantly, meaning every single response should have a throw object with more details about the specific error.

```js
export async function getVans() {
  const res = await fetch('/api/vans')
  if (!res.ok) {
    throw {
      message: 'Failed to fetch vans',
      statusText: res.statusText,
      status: res.status,
    }
  }
  const data = await res.json()
  return data.vans
}
```

## Overview

- For some reason what bob was doing in Scrimba was not working with my application, but one thing we can do is move the error from our individual route and up to the parent route.

```js
<Route path='/' element={<Layout />} errorElement={<Error />}></Route>
```

- Doing this any error within any child route will bubble up to the nearest errorElement meaning it will grab it directly from the parent.

- This means even if the error doesn't live in the specified route it will still be caught!

- Placing it at the very top parent would cause you to lose your header and footer, so you want to be careful about where you place these if you dont want this to happen.
