# Link

- There are two issues right now, first we have to go inside of the browsers URL to update the route, and secondly our page is refreshing completely, this doesn't seem like such a big deal, but if we had state living in our app that needed to be passed between different pages refreshing the page will completely wipe out that state that we were maintaining.

- Some examples would be the number icon next to the cart on a shopping site would be refreshed meaning we wouldn't be counting the items a customer added to the cart correctly.

- In HTML we have our href property on our a links, the problem with this approach is that it will refresh the page when we click on a new link, although there is a similar solution with react router DOM.

## Step One

- Import the Link component.

- Link is basically just rendering an anchor tag you can see this inside of the developer tools the only difference is that its being intercepted and being made sure that it doesn't refresh the entire page.

```js
import { BrowserRouter, Routes, Route, Link } from 'react-router-dom'
```

## Step Two

- This is not the best way to make this work but for the sake of the example we will keep it this way.

- The Link component works very similar to an A tag, but instead of href we use to. This is nice because it reads like english, link to where ever we want.

```js
function App() {
  return (
    <BrowserRouter>
      <Link to='/'>Home</Link>
      <Link to='/about'>About</Link>
      <Routes>
        <Route path='/' element={<Home />} />
        <Route path='/about' element={<About />} />
      </Routes>
    </BrowserRouter>
  )
}
```

- Now if we were to create some state in our App and pass that state to our home and about component when we link to different pages on the website we would not be refreshing meaning we would keep our state.

- If we had a counter counting all of the items we had inside of our cart stored in state, when we switch between our pages with link to that number next to the cart would remain the same.
