# Route Params Part 3.1 - useParams() & Challenge

- We now want our detail page to grab the id of the item from the URL tab and then go and get the specific information about that one van or product the user is supposed to be looking at.

- We can optimize our products/vans page to load up automatically instead of having to make a new fetch request just caching it somewhere, so we can get that information quicker.

- There is also a better way we can handle getting the detail information from each van/product, there is a better way to do this because we already have all of the information when we load up the products/vans.

## useParams()

- useParams allows us to grab any parameters that we have inside of our URL. To use it we will have to import this to the top of our page.

- We can then put our params inside of a variable called params and console log it.

```js
import { useParams } from 'react-router-dom'

export default function VanDetail() {
  const params = useParams()
  console.log(params)

  return <h1>Van detail page goes here</h1>
}
```

- What we are getting back is an object with the id of the item that we just clicked.

- I believe the id is coming from the '/:id' that we setup as a route on our main page. `<Route path="/vans/:id" element={<VanDetail />} />`.

- React router will look for any sections of the path that have a colon before it and it will add that as the key in the key value pair that we are getting returned to us through the object below, meaning that if we change the name of the id to `/:item` we would get back `{item: '1'}`.

```js
{
  id: '1'
}
```

- The reason router returns an object is because there is nothing stopping us from nesting another route into the current route that we have.

```js
<Route path='/vans/:id/rent' element={<VanDetail />} />
```

- A better example of this is adding the type of product or van that we are trying to access we will see that our object will be different.

```js
// main.jsx
(<Route path='/vans/:id/:type' element={<VanDetail />} />)

// page URL
`http://127.0.0.1:5174/shop/1/skincare`

// params console log
{id: '1', type: 'skincare'}
```

## Challenge

```js
import React from 'react'
import { useParams } from 'react-router-dom'
export default function VanDetail() {
  const params = useParams()
  console.log(params)
  /**
   * Challenge part 2:
   * Using the endpoint set up (with mirage js), fetch the data
   * for the van with the current ID from params.id. Log the data
   * that comes back to the console.
   *
   * Hint: the endpoint is a GET request to `/api/vans/:vanid`
   */
  return <h1>Van detail page goes here</h1>
}
```
