# Cloud Firestore Code Setup

- There isn't big changes that we need to make to our application to make it work, we just need to change where we are fetching our data from, right now we are fetching it from mirageJS but we can change this to fetching it from firestore.

```js
export async function getVans(id) {
  const url = id ? `/api/vans/${id}` : '/api/vans'
  const res = await fetch(url)
  if (!res.ok) {
    throw {
      message: 'Failed to fetch vans',
      statusText: res.statusText,
      status: res.status,
    }
  }
  const data = await res.json()
  return data.vans
}
```

## Firebase Setup

## Step One

- Get your configuration code from the firebase website and paste that inside of the `api.js` file.

- `import { initializeApp } from "firebase/app";` allows us to conntect to our vanlife application in firebase.

## Step Two

- We also need to write code that is specific to firestore like importing firestore which is what is giving us our database.

- We will not be gathering data real time (maybe you can use them later).

- This means that we will be using `firestore/lite`.

```js
import { getFirestore } from 'firebase/firestore/lite'
```

## Step Three

- Now we create our db object and equal it to getFireStore and pass through the app.

```js
const app = initializeApp(firebaseConfig)
const db = getFirestore(app)
```

# Collection reference and getVans() function

## Step One

- We will now make a reference to our collections and pass through the db (database) and the name of the database we want to collect data from this should be the name of the `cluster` on firebases website.

```js
const productsCollectionRef = collection(db, 'products')
```

## Step Two

- Mirage does intercept any fetch to a real resource meaning that to fix this we are going to have to pass `this.passthrough` which allows us to pass any URL that we will let MirageJS to make requests to.

```js
this.passthrough('https://firestore.googleapis.com/**')
```

## Step Three

- Every time we go out to make a request to firebase it calls it a `snapshot`.

- Its called snapshot because when the data changes in out database firebase takes a snapshot of that new data and updates it pretty much live for us.

- We will await `getDocs` which is another firebase function to get data from our database, then pass through the name of the collection where we want to recieve the data from.

```js
export async function getVans() {
  const querySnapshot = await getDocs(productsCollectionRef)
}
```

## Step Four

- We want to take that snapshot and turn it into a data array, this will contain all of our projects in an array of objects the same way our mirageJS server had them.

- Next we will take the querySnapsot and reference something calls the docs, which is all of the documents or items inside of the `products` collection on firebase.

- We can then map over it and take each doc individually and extract their data into an object, which will contain both the documents data like `name`, `shortName`, etc, and the id of the document that we are looking through.

- Finally, we need to make sure that we are returning the dataArr so that it can be used by any loaders that need it.

```js
export async function getVans() {
  const querySnapshot = await getDocs(productsCollectionRef)
  const dataArr = querySnapshot.docs.map(doc => ({
    ...doc.data(),
    id: doc.id,
  }))
  console.log(dataArr)
  return dataArr
}
```
