# Create getVan() function

- We are going to split the functions to get all the products and to get just one of the products this will make our code more readable.

- This will also make sure that our function only does one thing and it does it really well. This will also help with unit testing, if we ever added that to the project.

## Step One

- We will create a function called `getVan()` which will take in an id.

- We will have to go into each file that uses `getVans()` and change it to `getVan()`.

- Just like `collection` is a way to reference a collection of data, `doc` is the way to reference just one document.

- `doc` will take 3 parameters, first it will take the db that we are working with, then the collection that we are searching inside of, and finially the id of the document that we are trying to access.

- Finally just like how we use `getDocs` to get access to many documents, `getDoc` gives us access to just one document. We also need to pass the document reference or `docRef` to the `getDoc` function so that it knows what document to retrieve.

- Make sure that you return back an object this object is where your product is going to get entered, we will spread in all of the values of the productSnapshot which is the individual project that we found and also pass in the id because firebase does not pass in the id automatically.

- Finally go into the productDetail or vanDetail page and change the function in the loader and the import at the top of the page here is a link to a video guide ``

```js
export async function getProduct(id) {
  const docRef = doc(db, 'products', id)
  const productSnapshot = getDoc(docRef)
  return {
    ...productSnapshot.data(),
    id: productSnapshot.id,
  }
}
```

# Refactor getHostProduct function

- We are going to fake auth with firebase and make a login page actually work.

## Step One

- Since we only want to return the products that belong to host 123 we are going to have to make a query.

- Then we can use query and import it to the top of the page.

- Query will take first the collection that we we want to search over, and second is some type of filtering operation. This filtering operation will come from firebase so we will have to import it and its called `where`.

- `where()` takes three different parameters the firs being one of the properties of our document which in our case its "hostId," the second is an equality operation in our case we will use equal to "==" firebase may not have the same convention as javascript with the equal symbols. And finally we will use 123, and this will read out "where the host id is equal to 123."

- This query object will allow us to filter documents out of the products collection so instead of getting the entire collection we can just pass the filtered out query ones.

```js
import { query, where } from 'firebase/firestore/lite'

export async function getHostVans() {
  const q = query(productsCollectionRef, where('hostId', '==', '123'))
  const querySnapshot = await getDocs(q)
  const dataArr = querySnapshot.docs.map(doc => ({
    ...doc.data(),
    id: doc.id,
  }))
  return dataArr
}
```

# Final loose ends

- To fix our hostProductDetail all we will do is run the regular `getProduct`, this is not very safe for security purposes but since this application is not using user authentication anyways it will work for our intended purpose.

# Outro

## Some things you can do next

- Add real authentication

- Build something unique

- Build VanLife from scratch

- Take the Advanced React course

- Check out the Remix framework
